in our study, we will use machine learning algorithms to classify the patients with real Alzheimer disease and similar symptoms. The data set we are going to use is the ADNI (Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative). Several machine learning procedures that can be used to solve
classification problems exist. The methods that we will use in this study will include LR, Naive Bayes (NB), Support Vector Machin with linear (SVM-Linear), radial basis function (SVM-RBF), and polynomial (SVM-Poly) kernels with Platt scaling, k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm (kNN) , Multi-Layer Perceptrons with either one or two hidden layers and trained with either a full- batch gradient descent or Adam algorithms (MLP1-Batch, MLP2-Batch, MLP1-Adam, MLP2-Adam), RF, and Gradient Tree Boosting of Decision Trees (GTB) , other kinds of Artificial Neural Networks like Convolutional Neural Networks for analyzing MRI Images, Recurrent Neural Networks for Analyzing the biomarkers data which are in time-series format. The results of these classifiers will be used in Ensemble learning methods to gain higher accuracy. The different algorithms will be used for different data sets. For example, to use MRI images as training data we will use Convolution Neural Networks, for EEG data we will use Recurrent Neural Networks, and for parametric data (like the PH of blood, age, blood pressure, etc.) the support vector classifier, decision tree, stochastic gradient descent will be used as ensemble learning method. Since we have many features we also will use some Regularized Linear Models like ridge regression, Lasso regression, and Elastic Net to avoid over learning. Some feature reduction methods like t-SNE, PCA, MDS, etc. will be used before feeding the data to neural networks. We may have some analysis on the output of feature reduction methods to convert them to understandable data which will be used to extract the most important biomarkers contributing to Alzheimer's. The last but not least, a statistical analysis will be done on the predictions of the machine, to suggest the best treatment guideline. As anyone can notice, these training methods will be very computationally costly. We will have two plans to solve these problems. The first one is using the Linux clusters of CERN (lxplus.cern.ch). The second way is using Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) to perform parallel computation with high speed.
